- [Instructor] There's a construct from Spring Data
that we didn't discuss in either the web services
or the data conversations,
but if you are writing a lot of simple data web services,
they can prove to be really quick
at getting things up and operational.
This construct is called Spring Data REST Repositories.
Now we're not going to go too deep into them,
instead just showing them because they are worth seeing.
So I want you to navigate to your web application
and we're going to go to the room-web-app.
Let's open up the POM file
and let's add another dependency,
and this one is spring-boot-starter-data-rest
from org.springframework.boot.
We'll run Maven.
Now, once that is done,
let's go to Source Main, Resources,
and open up our application.properties file.
We're going to put in a value here,
spring.data.rest.base-path,
and we're going to set it equal to api/rest.
This way we can differentiate between
the other web services that we've already created.
Lett's also go to Source Main, Java Config,
and let's go to our Security context,
and we will add api/rest/star.
Even though technically,
this would fall under the previous one,
I like to put them in there
just because I want to make sure that this is exposed.
Now, that's all we have to do.
Let's go ahead and start up this application.
We're going to go to a terminal
and I'm going to use my HTTP utility.
We're going to go to 8080,
and let's start by going to api/rooms.
You'll see that the rooms populate.
However, we also can go to api/rest/rooms
and you will see we get a different representation
of the data.
And this is using HATEOAS along with the REST repository.
Because we have repositories,
we automatically get this data service
that exposes raw data repositories as services.
And you'll see, we also can go to
staffMembers and we get the data there.
Now you may remember,
this isn't what we called this in the actual raw API.
We just called it staff.
It's looking at the repository name
in order to generate that end point.
Now obviously, you can customize that,
as you can with all of Spring,
but this gives you just a very quick way
if all you're doing is writing some data services
that you want to be able to expose
through a web service API without doing a lot of work.
Of course, you are getting HATEOAS as well,
and some web developers really like to have that
if they're writing React components.